Group Charter: Eternal Suffering
Meetings: Monday 5:00pm - 6:30pm
Group Contacts:
* Lauren Roth - roth6@uwm.edu
* Lawrence Emmer - ltemmer@uwm.edu
* George Wiedmann - wiedma9@uwm.edu
* Arman Bunic-Duratovic - duratovc@uwm.edu

Goals:
1. To become comfortable with working on a team, and become an effective
team member while respecting and supporting others. 

2. To become familiar with the software development cycle and to create a product 
that is more than the bare minimum. 

3. To gain first hand experience developing an actual product and become acquainted 
with the process that goes into software development.

4. To get an A ideally. 

Work Norms:
1. Time commitment:
Expected 2hr./week outside of meetings and lab OR as long as needed to get assigned 
tasks done. 

2. Work habits:
The work habits of others will not become an issue unless those work habits directly
conflict with the progress of the team as a whole. If the work is of decent quality
and is completed on time then there is no need to address work habits. If they become
an issue though, it will need to be addressed as a group. 

Rules:
Meetings:
1. Length of meetings:
Meetings should be on average 1 hour. Meetings should not exceed 1 1/2 hours. If further communication after
maximum is needed, then messaging through our discord server will take place to further communicate about 
the project. 

2. Missing a meeting:
Missing a meeting is a major offense. We plan to only meet once a week and it will be very important to be 
present during this time. If a member has a valid excuse for missing a meeting then the absence will be excused.

3. Tardiness to meetings:
Being late to a meeting is defined as being more than 10 min late to the scheduled time. Being late to a 
meeting is a minor offense. If a member is more that 30 min late to a meeting without notifying the group or 
with a valid excuse this will be a major offense, as this is essentially missing a meeting. 

4. Phone use during meetings:
Members should try to refrain from phone use during the meeting. An occasional text or short phone call is 
understandable so long as it does not disrupt the group. Phone use should be addressed if it is becoming an 
issue. If phone use is addressed more than once in a meeting then this will be recorded as a minor offense.

Group communication and interaction:
1. Regular communication:
Regular communication should occur every two to three days via discord. This communication
should include a simple update on one's progress of their portion of the project. When a
member finishes their portion of the project, they should notify the group about the 
completion and send the file into the group discord. If a member forgets to post progress, any
member can message the person who forgot to update their progress. If the member still does not
respond, then the group may have to re-assign their responsibilities. If the member has a good
reason for not responding no action will be taken, but if such a situation is re-occurring
then action taken will be decided as a group. If a member is having problems with their portion of the work, they
should let the rest of the group know immediately so they can be helped in a timely manner. 

2. Group communication on tardiness/missed meetings and meeting information:
If a group member knows prior to the meeting that they will miss it, the member should
let the team know they will not attend the meeting. If a member is going to be late by a 
few minutes there is no need to notify the group. Failure to notify of tardiness or absence
will result in a minor offence. 

3. Communication guidelines:
The opinion, input, or any question of a group member will be respected so long as it
is not inflammatory in nature. Disagreements should be brought about in a respectful
manner. Degradation, dismissal, or general rudeness is not to be tolerated. If a member 
feels as though they are not being respected or their ideas are being dismissed, they
can bring it up to the group and the issue can be discussed. If such a situation occurs
more than three times, the member may seek outside counsel with the TA of the course. If
for some reason the issue is still not resolved, it can be brought up with the course
instructor.

4. Structure:
The group will not have a traditional hierarchy in the sense that there is a leader. To be
more efficient though, it may prove useful to assign a few roles every week prior to meetings.
Such roles can include a note taker, coordinator, or other administrative role. The group structure
is not meant to be rigid in order to encourage flexibility. 

5. Decision making:
Any decision concerning the project in any regard will be discussed and made as a group.
This is done by a majority vote after a discussion. 

6. Delegation of work:
Delegation of responsibilities and work is done as a group. If someone wishes to volunteer
for a specific task they may do so. If a person does not volunteer for any task, they will 
be assigned tasks from the remaining pool of unassigned tasks. Ideally, everyone will have 
a similar workload to avoid overloading an individual with work and responsibility. If 
a member feels as though they are receiving too much work they can bring it up with the 
group and it can be discussed as to whether or not work needs to be reassigned. 

Group participation and quality of work:
1. Participation:
If a member is not participating or phoning it in, then the group
will need to address this member and any issues they may be facing. The accused 
does not need to delve into every detail of why they cannot accomplish work, but a 
reasonable and sufficient response is expected. If the group deems that their excuse 
is good then no action is to be taken. But, if the excuse is unreasonable then
it will be counted as a minor offence. 

2. Lack of Quality and Timeliness:
To be effective in working on the project and future work, work completed must be
done so in a timely manner and the quality of work must be acceptable. This isn't 
to say that we are expecting the best product and work seen, but effort should be
put forth and the work must reflect that effort. If it is clear that a group member 
is barely putting in the bare minimum, then the issue will need to be raised as a 
group. If the group deems they have no reason for the lack of quality, it will
count as a minor offence. Additionally, if work is not completed in accordance 
to a deadline, it will also be raised as an issue to the group. If the excuse 
for the late completion is not satisfactory, this will also be counted as a major 
offence. Due to the short amount of time available for this project, three of these 
violations can constitute a major offence. If a member knows in advance they are
struggling or may not finish the work in time, they should let the group know in the 
discord at least a couple hours before the work is due. If the group finds the reason
for the notification acceptable, no offence will be marked. Consistent failings though will
need to be addressed as a group and such an offence will also be addressed as a group. 
Life and other school responsibilities need to be made apparent to the group in order
to work around these other responsibilities. If it becomes too much of an issue or 
hinderance though it will need to be brought up and addressed directly as a group.

4. Overly Heavy Workload:
If the workload for a particular person is deemed to be too much, that individual
will need to reason for why the workload is too heavy. As such, the work may need
to be extended into the next sprint and split into smaller tasks. This is done if the
work cannot be picked up by other group members. 

Disciplinary Procedures:
1. Regarding disciplinary actions:
Any offence can be dismissed and forgotten / forgiven if decided so by the group as a
majority. 

2. Disciplinary Log:
As mentioned earlier, when decided at each meeting, the note taker or a role similar to this will
need to keep track of what offences have been committed and by who. 

3. Minor Group Offences:
- Being over 10 min but under 30 min late
- No response in over 48 hours 
- Innapropriate communication such as rudeness or dismissal
- Lack of communication
- Unexcused tardy or incomplete work
- Lack of participation

4. Major Group Offence:
- Overdue work without explanation
- Absence of a meeting without explanation
- Extreme behavior such as yelling, overly crude language, intentional disrespect.
- No participation 
- 3 of any minor offences 

Minor group offences occur for any reasons stated in this charter or if an undefined
issue occurs and the group decides to classify that issue as a minor offence. Such offences will
be tracked and the perpetrator is to be notified for every minor offence committed. If they feel
they can correct the offence and the group agrees the wrong has been righted, the offence can
be dismissed. Major offences are more serious. If a member accumulates three major offences
it will be brought up with the TA, and if an excessive amount of major offences are found it
may need to be brought up with the course instructor. Like a minor offence, major offences are noted
and the perpetrator is notified. Unlike a minor offence though, if an argument is to be made about
a major offence it can be downgraded to a minor offence if the group decides to do so. Ideally, the
group will not need to worry about this section of the charter.

5. Dismissal:
If enough offences are committed, dismissal of a member may need to be considered. As such, this 
decision is made by the group and if agreed upon, dismissal of a group member will be discussed with
the TA first, and then the course instructor. 

Signatures:
Name: Arman Duratovic    Date: April 3 2024
Name: George Wiedemann   Date: 4/3/24
Name: Lauren Roth        Date: 4/3/24
Name: Lawrence Emmer     Date: 4/3/24

